=pod

=head1 NAME

whence - prints the website a file was downloaded from

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<whence> [I<OPTIONS>] I<FILE>...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<whence> examines extended file attributes on the given I<FILE>s to
determine the URL of the website that the file was originally
downloaded from.  Most web browsers set these extended attributes when
downloading a file, although some may not.

B<whence> can usually determine both the URL that the file was
downloaded from, and the URL of the web page which linked to the
file.  On MacOS, B<whence> can also determine the name of the
application which downloaded the file, and the date it was
downloaded.  On Windows, B<whence> can determine the security zone
the file was downloaded from.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-j>, B<--json>

Print results in JSON format.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print usage message and exit.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Print the version number of B<whence> and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Example of human-readable output:

    bash$ whence wget-1.20.tar.gz
    wget-1.20.tar.gz:
      URL         https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/wget/wget-1.20.tar.gz
      Referrer    https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/wget/
      Application Firefox
      Date        Sun Jun  7 11:30:18 PDT 2020

Example of JSON output:

    bash$ whence -j em*.pdf
    {
      "emailreceipt_20131027R1549504934.pdf": {
        "from": "theoaks@apple.com",
        "subject": "Your receipt from Apple Store, The Oaks",
        "message-id": "message:%3C63901179@alwar.corp.apple.com%3E",
        "application": "Mail",
        "date": "2013-10-27T22:26:50Z"
      },
      "emic2_schematic.pdf": {
        "url": "http://www.grandideastudio.com/emic2_schematic.pdf",
        "application": "Chromium",
        "date": "2020-03-29T10:11:17Z"
      }
    }

=head1 JSON FORMAT

When the B<-j> option is used, B<whence> prints a JSON object to
stdout.  The keys of the object are filenames, and the values of the
object are themselves objects which may contain the following keys:

=over

=item url

URL that the file was downloaded from.

=item referrer

URL of the page which linked to the file.

=item from

For email messages, who the message is from.

=item subject

For email messages, the subject of the message.

=item message-id

For email messages, the Message ID of the message.

=item application

The name of the application that downloaded the file.  (MacOS only)

=item date

The date that the file was downloaded, in ISO 8601 format.  (MacOS only)

=item zone

The security zone that the file was downloaded from.  (Windows only)

=item error

Error message if there was a problem processing the file.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over

=item 0

Attributes were found on at least one I<FILE> given on the command line.

=item 1

Attributes were not found on any I<FILE> given on the command line.

=item 2

At least one I<FILE> was not found.

=item 3

Some other error occurred.

=item 4

Command line parsing error.

=item 5

Out of memory.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

xattr(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

B<whence> was written by Patrick Pelletier and is distributed under
the MIT license.

For more information, see <https://github.com/ppelleti/whence>.

=cut
